inside her burrow the female Synod aunt
has laid a fresh clutch of eggs one day
in the distant future this strategy of
investing in their young will pay off
for their mammalian descendants but as
mammals evolved over the next 160
million years they will only survive as
a few small species clinging on at the
edge of a world dominated by dinosaurs
outside that future is already arriving
the female Coelophysis has survived the
drought
along with many of her kind
but they have also been joined by
another type of dinosaur
a huge herd of Plateosaurus has been
drawn to the swollen river it is hard to
believe that these four-legged beasts
are related to Coelophysis but these are
plant eating dinosaurs their size is the
key to their success and at 4 tons they
are simply too big to be threatened
this is the shape of things to come the
age of the dinosaurs has dawned